DOC: add key concepts doc (#20347)
jax-ml/jax: docs/tutorials/key-concepts.md

---
jupytext:
  formats: md:myst
  text_representation:
    extension: .md
    format_name: myst
    format_version: 0.13
    jupytext_version: 1.16.0
kernelspec:
  display_name: Python 3
  language: python
  name: python3
---

(key-concepts)=
# Key Concepts

> This sectiong briefly introduces some key concepts of the JAX package.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section briefly introduces some key concepts of the JAX package.
```

Author: Done

{term}`transformations <transformation>` which operate on JAX functions. These include

- {func}`jax.jit`: Just-in-time (JIT) compilation; see {ref}`jit-compilation`
- {func}`jax.vmap`: Vectorizing transform; see {ref}`automatic-vectorization`
- {func}`jax.grad`: Gradient transform; see {ref}`automatic-differentiation`

as well as several others. Transformations accept a function as an argument, and return a
new transformed function. For example, here's how you might JIT-compile a simple SELU function:

```{code-cell}
def selu(x, alpha=1.67, lambda_=1.05):
  return lambda_ * jnp.where(x > 0, x, alpha * jnp.exp(x) - alpha)

selu_jit = jax.jit(selu)
print(selu_jit(1.0))
```

Often you'll see transformations applied using Python's decorator syntax for convenience:

```{code-cell}
@jax.jit
def selu(x, alpha=1.67, lambda_=1.05):
  return lambda_ * jnp.where(x > 0, x, alpha * jnp.exp(x) - alpha)
```

Transformations like {func}`~jax.jit`, {func}`~jax.vmap`, {func}`~jax.grad`, and others are
key to using JAX effectively, and we'll cover them in detail in later sections.

(key-concepts-tracing)=
## Tracing

The magic behind transformations is the notion of a {term}`Tracers <Tracer>`.

> Tracers are abstract standins for array objects, and are passed to JAX functions in order

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Tracers are abstract stand-ins for array objects, and are passed to JAX functions in order
```

Author: Done
